We're gonna begin the day by going
through a quick warm up quiz.
We're gonna talk about a couple questions,
some of them are easy, some
of them are hard, and this will sort of
just get the blood moving, get us going.
So with that, if you're on the course
website here we're gonna start with
the second unit the JS/TS warm-up quiz.
So I'm gonna ask these questions and
I want you to just sort of in your mind or
in chat if you're watching live, figure
out what you think the answer is and
then we'll open up the solution and
discuss.
So, the first question, so
we have this class called Person.
And then we have two things here.
Within the class we have something
that appears to be called name,
something that's called age.
So compare and
contrast name and age fields.
There's something similar about them,
something different about them
Actually this is one that you
probably either know or don't know.
So hash tag name, this is what is
called a JavaScript private field.
It's a relatively new language feature.
And this is actually a private field,
right?
If I create an instant of person
from outside that instance,
I cannot access the name property.
It's actually private at runtime.
This age field is
a typeScript private field.
So there's this word private,
it's called an Access Modifier Keyword,
there's private, public and protected.
And you get the benefits of type
checking that sort of kinda yell at
you if you try to use this from places
where you shouldn't have access to it.
But at runtime, this field still exists.
So if for example, you get yourself in
a situation where you throw out all of
the tape information, you say TypeScript
ignore all the errors here or
cast this object and
force it to be another type.
You can actually write code
that would access age.
And at runtime, you'll see that you
have a value there and that's 1.
So they both are similar in that they
express this concept of private,
1 is just enforced both at build time and
at runtime,
whereas this kind of field
here is only at build time.
So generally, if you're using a
sufficiently modern version of JavaScript,
which you should be able to do thanks
to projects like Babel, which take care
of the compiling for you, this is
probably the one you want to start using.
Question 2, we have a bunch of
variables here a, b, c, d, and e.
And the question is,
of these five variables,
which of them holds an immutable value?
Immutable, of course,
meaning we cannot change that value,
the value of the variable holds.
If we think about this, a and b,
right, they both hold the string.
So in JavaScript strings
are immutable value types.
And the trap that one can fall into here
is sort of this this idea of const versus
let, const and let they're both
are ways we can declare variables, but
that has more to do with reassignability,
right?
We could take this variable b and we could
point it at a different string, we could,
and that would allow us effectively
later in our code to refer to b and
get something that looks different.
The thing that b points to,
this string here we cannot change,
strings are immutable in JavaScript.
That's why when we split
a string into little parts,
maybe you have like comma separated
values and you split that string,
you basically get an array of totally
new strings that come back to you.
You're not altering that string in place.
All right, so it turns out a and
b both holds immutable values.
These two for similar reasons to what we
just described, these are both mutable.
These are object types.
So for example we could pass
this c into a function, and
despite not reassigning c to anything,
that function
could place a new key and
value inside this object, right?
We can mutate this thing in place.
And you do this all the time with
arrays and with objects, right?
These are our collection types.
So these are both immutable.
And then finally we have
this thing at the bottom.
It's similar to what we see in c and
d, but we're using object.freeze.
And this, it turns out is or
it acts as an immutable value.
So object.freeze prevents new properties
from being added to an object, and it
prevents the existing properties on that
object from being assigned to new values.
And I say that very carefully
because what I just
described will give you kind
of one level of immutability.
So if you have deeply nested objects,
you can still change the values
held in that objects keys.
So if this were an object,
I would be prevented from pointing
learn at to something new, but
nothing's stopping me from changing this,
except the fact that this is a string.
So what I'm showing you here is immutable,
but
object.freeze does not recursively
make things immutable.
So it's a, b, and e.
And the trick here is to make sure
you understand the difference
between reassignability and immutability.
Okay, so we have a fill in
the blank challenge here.
So we create a string.
We create a new variable called val,
and do something with it.
And there's a very obvious answer here,
like,
we do not set it equal to the answer, but
it does something that has to do with STR.
And we can see the result
of the console lock.
So it's str.split.
I see one answer in chat that
has an array and then ...str.
I'm not sure whether that works because
that only works with iterable types, and
I am not sure that strings can be spread
that way to get their character list.
That's the kind of thing that
I'd have to actually check.
But this for sure will work.
All right, next question.
So building on the last question, right?
Where we have the string and
we turn it into something else that sort
of expanded representation of this string.
So we have val equals and
then fill in the blank.
What is the blank in this case?
And you can see what we end up with is,
I would call this, I mean,
some people would call
it an associative array,
where it's kind of like using
numbers to access the properties.
But it's not really an ordered collection,
right?
So there's no sense of like, I mean,
happens to be printed out this way, but
you could have the key for 0 be like
way down here after the number 4.
In this case, you kind of have to
do what we did in the last example
combined with spreading
this out into an object.
So you need something that has effectively
key value pairs in some sense and
arrays do have that, right?
Your keys are 0,1 and
2, those are positions.
So if you spread this out into an object,
you're going to be able to get
an associative array like this.
By the way,
I'm asking these questions for a reason.
It may seem like JavaScript
trivia a little bit here.
We're going to be dealing with spread and
rest all day when it comes to types
because of recent advancements in
TypeScript that let us do that.
Much more flexibly in the 4.x series of
TypeScript releases compared to before.
Looks like some people were
able to do dot, dot, dot, and
then the string spread out into
an object directly in their console.
That's interesting.
This will also work.
So any of these I would
consider to be right answers